Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose overview. 
Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose or Amazon Kinesis Firehose provides an easy and reliable way to load streaming data to AWS destinations such as data lakes, data stores, and analytics services. The streaming data can be captured, transformed, and delivered to Amazon S3. Amazon Redshift, Amazon Open Search Service, and third-party service partners such as Datadog, New Relic, and Splunk. It is a fully managed service that automatically scales to match the throughput of your data and eliminates the need for ongoing administration. 
Amazon Kinesis Firehose allows you to configure batching, compression and encryption of your data streams before loading, minimizing the amount of storage used and maximizing security. You can easily create a Firehose delivery stream from the AWS Management Console, configure it with a few clicks and start ingesting thousands of data streams to your AWS destinations.
You can also configure your data streams to automatically convert the incoming data to open standard formats like Apache Parquet and Apache OSC before the data is delivered. Amazon can ease us by host benefits new real-time delivery. 
You can specify a batch size or batch to control how quickly data is uploaded. So their cloud destinations, for example, for new data you can set the batch interval to 60 seconds in the service will return processed data within that time frame. 
Additionally, you can specify if the data should be compressed. The service supports common compression algorithms including Gzip, Hadoop, Zip and Snappy. Batching and compressing data before uploading enables you to control your data delivery speed. Integrated data transformations. 

Amazon Kinesis Firehose is integrated with the AWS LANDA to allow you to transform your streaming data before it is loaded to their AWS destinations. The Amazon Kinesis Firehose console allows you to choose and configure. The LAMBDA function then it will then automatically Apply that function to every input record processed. 

Amazon Kinesis Firehose provides pre-built land of blueprints that you can use out of the box for converting common data sources such as system logs to JSON format or you can customize and create your own blueprints. Pay as you go pricing. 
With Amazon Kinesis Firehose, you are charged only for the volume of data, transmitted to the AWS destination as well as data delivery fees to Amazon VPC. Optional fees may apply for data format conversion. 
With Amazon Kinesis Firehose eliminate minimum usage fees or upfront costs, you don't need staff to operate, scale, or maintain infrastructure, or custom applications to load, and capture streaming data. 